vagrant-pxe-harvester/README.md, before:

Harvester iPXE Boot Using Vagrant Libvirt
=========================================

Introduction
------------

Utilizing [Vagrant][vagrant], [KVM][kvm], and [Ansible][ansible] to create a
ready-to-play virtual Harvester environment for evaluation and testing
purposes. Two Vagrant VMs will be created by default, PXE server and a
single-node Harvester respectively.

Prerequisites
-------------

-   Ansible \>= 2.9.0. This environment was tested with Ansible 2.9.5.
-   Vagrant \>= 2.0.3.
-   vagrant-libvirt plugin \>= 0.0.43.
-   KVM (i.e. qemu-kvm), preferably the latest and greatest. This
    environment was tested with qemu-kvm 2.11.
-   Host with at least 16 CPU, 64GB RAM, and 500GB free disk space.

Quick Start
-----------

1.  Edit `settings.yml` to make sure the configuration satisfies your
    needs. The options are self-documented.
2.  Run `setup_harvester.sh`. This may take awhile (i.e. 30 minutes
    depending on configuration).
3.  If successful, run `vagrant status` to see the status of the Vagrant
    boxes.
4.  Point your browser to `https://<harvester_vip>:30443` to
    access the Harvester UI. Just ignore the scary SSL warnings for now
    as it is using self-signed certificates for demo purposes.
    *NOTE*: by default `harvester_vip` is `192.168.0.131`. However, it is
    configureable in `settings.yml`.

Running With Single Node Air-Gapped Rancher & Harvester Node
-----------
1.  As above, edit `settings.yml` to make sure the configuration satisfies your
    needs. The options are self-documented.
2.  Run `setup_harvester.sh` - this can take 2hrs+ to set up an Air Gapped Rancher instance and Harvester Node
3.  You then can navigate to `https://<harvester_vip>:30443` to access the harvester UI.
4.  You can also navigate to (from settings.yml) 'rancher_config.rancher_install_domain' to access the Air-Gapped Rancher UI.
5.  Then you can add an air-gapped Harvester cluster to the air-gapped Rancher instance.

Acknowledgements
----------------

-   The Vagrant iPXE environment idea was borrowed from
    <https://github.com/eoli3n/vagrant-pxe>.


[ansible]: https://www.ansible.com
[kvm]: https://www.linux-kvm.org
[vagrant]: https://www.vagrantup.com

Commit message:

feat: Adjustments For 2096
* allow for setup_harvester script to clean up known hosts by ipv4
  associated with the VMs in settings.yml
* provide fully qualified plugin name where applicable
* provide name to tasks including debug ones, debug tasks will only run
  with -vv+ within ansible playbook call now
* introduce retry logic for things we need to download via network
* allow for bootstrap password and replicas
* update README, to include info about ansible-galaxy community.general
  modules dependency
* update README to include info about needed sshpass pre-req
* introduce check to test rancher node is accessible via url post
  install
* split calls out to update cache as own task to hopefully prevent cache
  unknown errors with ansible.builtin.apt, N times produce varried
  results with ansible.builtin.apt passing update_cache property
* allow most recent k3s
* downgrade rancher version default, due to active bug in
  rancher/rancher
* now harvester provisioning will set the Harvester Dashboard / web-ui
  password based around what is desired from settings.yml
* ability to run Rancher single node either in air-gapped or non-airgapped setting
* air-gapped for versions greater than 2.6.4, utilize 2.6.4 rancher as
  base layer than upgrade on top of that
* Makefile and makefile-helper script added to check dependencies needed
  to spin up the current project for vagrant ipxe work
* Introduce avahi daemon on Rancher single node for hostname resolution
* Hostname for rancher vagrant vm can be anything as long as it ends in
  .local

Resolves: feat/2096-air-gapped-rancher-single-node-proof-of-concept

vagrant-pxe-harvester/README.md, after:

Harvester iPXE Boot Using Vagrant Libvirt
=========================================

Introduction
------------

Utilizing [Vagrant][vagrant], [KVM][kvm], and [Ansible][ansible] to create a
ready-to-play virtual Harvester environment for evaluation and testing
purposes. Two Vagrant VMs will be created by default, PXE server and a
single-node Harvester respectively.

Prerequisites
-------------

-   Ansible \>= 2.9.0. This environment was tested with Ansible 2.9.5.
-   Vagrant \>= 2.0.3.
-   vagrant-libvirt plugin \>= 0.0.43 and \<= 0.8.2 (NOTE: Anything above 0.8.2 currently breaks the Vagrantfile loadout with libvirt)
-   KVM (i.e. qemu-kvm), preferably the latest and greatest. This
    environment was tested with qemu-kvm 2.11.
-   Host with at least 16 CPU, 64GB RAM, and 500GB free disk space.
-   To run with Rancher either airgapped or not airgapped you need to have installed `sshpass` \>=1.06-1
-   Ansible Galaxy's Community General module, `ansible-galaxy collection install community.general` , the community.general module must be installed

Quick Start
-----------

1.  Edit `settings.yml` to make sure the configuration satisfies your
    needs. The options are self-documented.
2.  Run `setup_harvester.sh`. This may take awhile (i.e. 30 minutes
    depending on configuration).
3.  If successful, run `vagrant status` to see the status of the Vagrant
    boxes.
4.  Point your browser to `https://<harvester_vip>:30443` to
    access the Harvester UI. Just ignore the scary SSL warnings for now
    as it is using self-signed certificates for demo purposes.
    *NOTE*: by default `harvester_vip` is `192.168.0.131`. However, it is
    configureable in `settings.yml`.

Running With A Single Node Rancher Instance
-----------
1. You can edit the `settings.yml` to change:
    - `rancher_config.run_single_node_rancher` to `true` to enable running a single node non-airgapped Rancher instance, if you would like to airgap that Rancher instance you would set `rancher_config.run_single_node_air_gapped_rancher` to `true` as well
    - `node_disk_size` for `rancher_config` is thin provisioned (so it won't truly take up the entire space), but if running air-gapped would need a minimum of 300G
    - other options should be self documenting
2. Then you can run `./setup_harvester.sh` **NOTE:** you more than likely will want to pass the flag `-c` or `--clean-ssh-known-hosts` so that when the additional configuration on each Harvester node runs after standing up Rancher old-host information is cleaned up, ex: `./setup_harvester.sh -c`, since cleaning the known_hosts file is a local file, the flag is optional, because you may want to manipulate that local file yourself instead of having this script manipulate that local file
3.  You then can navigate to `https://<harvester_vip>:30443` to access the harvester UI.
4.  You can also navigate to (from settings.yml) 'rancher_config.rancher_install_domain' to access the Air-Gapped Rancher UI.

Acknowledgements
----------------

-   The Vagrant iPXE environment idea was borrowed from
    <https://github.com/eoli3n/vagrant-pxe>.


[ansible]: https://www.ansible.com
[kvm]: https://www.linux-kvm.org
[vagrant]: https://www.vagrantup.com
